README_EN.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/yanyiwu/nodejieba.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/yanyiwu/nodejieba)
[![Author](https://img.shields.io/badge/author-@yanyiwu-blue.svg?style=flat)](http://yanyiwu.com/) 
[![Platform](https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-Linux,%20OS%20X,%20Windows-green.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/yanyiwu/nodejieba)
[![Performance](https://img.shields.io/badge/performance-excellent-brightgreen.svg?style=flat)](http://yanyiwu.com/work/2015/06/14/jieba-series-performance-test.html) 
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-yellow.svg?style=flat)](http://yanyiwu.mit-license.org)
[![Dependency Status](https://david-dm.org/yanyiwu/nodejieba.png?theme=shields.io)](https://david-dm.org/yanyiwu/nodejieba)
[![devDependency Status](https://david-dm.org/yanyiwu/nodejieba/dev-status.png?theme=shields.io)](https://david-dm.org/yanyiwu/nodejieba#info=devDependencies)
[![NpmDownload Status](http://img.shields.io/npm/dm/nodejieba.svg)](https://www.npmjs.org/package/nodejieba)
[![NPM Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/nodejieba.svg?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.org/package/nodejieba)
- - -

# NodeJieba [简体中文](README.md)

## Introduction

The Jieba Chinese Word Segmentation Implemented By Node.js .

## Download

```sh
npm install nodejieba
```

Or [cnpm] instead of npm

```sh
npm --registry=http://r.cnpmjs.org install nodejieba
```

## Usage

```js
var nodejieba = require("nodejieba");
var result = nodejieba.cut("南京市长江大桥");
console.log(result);
//["南京市","长江大桥"]
```

See details in [test/demo.js](test/demo.js)

### POS Tagging

```js
var nodejieba = require("nodejieba");
console.log(nodejieba.tag("红掌拨清波"));
//[ { word: '红掌', tag: 'n' },
//  { word: '拨', tag: 'v' },
//  { word: '清波', tag: 'n' } ]
```

See details in [test/demo.js](test/demo.js)

### Keyword Extractor

```
var nodejieba = require("nodejieba");
var topN = 4;
console.log(nodejieba.extract("升职加薪，当上CEO，走上人生巅峰。", topN));
//[ { word: 'CEO', weight: 11.739204307083542 },
//  { word: '升职', weight: 10.8561552143 },
//  { word: '加薪', weight: 10.642581114 },
//  { word: '巅峰', weight: 9.49395840471 } ]
```

See details in [test/demo.js](test/demo.js)

## Testing

Testing passed in the following version:

+ `node v0.10.2`
+ `node v0.12.1`
+ `iojs v1.3.0`
+ `iojs v2.2.1`
+ `node v4.0.0`

## Cases

+ [gitbook-plugin-search-pro]
+ [pinyin]

## Performance

It is supposed to be the best in the angle of high performance, because its basic foundation is powered by C++.

## Online Demo

http://cppjieba-webdemo.herokuapp.com/
(chrome is suggested)

## Contact

Email: `i@yanyiwu.com`
QQ: 64162451

![image](http://7viirv.com1.z0.glb.clouddn.com/5a7d1b5c0d_yanyiwu_personal_qrcodes.jpg)

## Licens

MIT http://yanyiwu.mit-license.org

## Thanks

- [Jieba]

## Author

- [YanyiWu]
- [contributors]

[由NodeJieba谈谈Node.js异步实现]:http://yanyiwu.com/work/2015/03/21/nodejs-asynchronous-insight.html
[Node.js的C++扩展初体验之NodeJieba]:http://yanyiwu.com/work/2014/02/22/nodejs-cpp-addon-nodejieba.html
[CppJieba]:https://github.com/yanyiwu/cppjieba.git
[cnpm]:http://cnpmjs.org
[Jieba中文分词]:https://github.com/fxsjy/jieba

[Jieba中文分词系列性能评测]:http://yanyiwu.com/work/2015/06/14/jieba-series-performance-test.html
[contributors]:https://github.com/yanyiwu/nodejieba/graphs/contributors
[YanyiWu]:http://yanyiwu.com
[gitbook-plugin-search-pro]:https://plugins.gitbook.com/plugin/search-pro
[pinyin]:https://github.com/hotoo/pinyin

Commit message:

Add a "Why" section to the English readme
因为看英文版本的人也许不知道这个软件的用途，所以我写了一小段内容解释。

README_EN.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/yanyiwu/nodejieba.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/yanyiwu/nodejieba)
[![Author](https://img.shields.io/badge/author-@yanyiwu-blue.svg?style=flat)](http://yanyiwu.com/) 
[![Platform](https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-Linux,%20OS%20X,%20Windows-green.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/yanyiwu/nodejieba)
[![Performance](https://img.shields.io/badge/performance-excellent-brightgreen.svg?style=flat)](http://yanyiwu.com/work/2015/06/14/jieba-series-performance-test.html) 
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-yellow.svg?style=flat)](http://yanyiwu.mit-license.org)
[![Dependency Status](https://david-dm.org/yanyiwu/nodejieba.png?theme=shields.io)](https://david-dm.org/yanyiwu/nodejieba)
[![devDependency Status](https://david-dm.org/yanyiwu/nodejieba/dev-status.png?theme=shields.io)](https://david-dm.org/yanyiwu/nodejieba#info=devDependencies)
[![NpmDownload Status](http://img.shields.io/npm/dm/nodejieba.svg)](https://www.npmjs.org/package/nodejieba)
[![NPM Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/nodejieba.svg?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.org/package/nodejieba)
- - -

# NodeJieba [简体中文](README.md)

## Introduction

The Jieba Chinese Word Segmentation Implemented By Node.js.

### Why?

As you're reading this in English, you may be unaware of how words are separated in Chinese. They aren't! Spaces are sometimes used as punctuation, but not as word delimiters.

So in order to separate words in in Chinese we need more advanced methods. This library handles that problem.

## Download

```sh
npm install nodejieba
```

Or [cnpm] instead of npm

```sh
npm --registry=http://r.cnpmjs.org install nodejieba
```

## Usage

```js
var nodejieba = require("nodejieba");
var result = nodejieba.cut("南京市长江大桥");
console.log(result);
//["南京市","长江大桥"]
```

See details in [test/demo.js](test/demo.js)

### POS Tagging

```js
var nodejieba = require("nodejieba");
console.log(nodejieba.tag("红掌拨清波"));
//[ { word: '红掌', tag: 'n' },
//  { word: '拨', tag: 'v' },
//  { word: '清波', tag: 'n' } ]
```

See details in [test/demo.js](test/demo.js)

### Keyword Extractor

```
var nodejieba = require("nodejieba");
var topN = 4;
console.log(nodejieba.extract("升职加薪，当上CEO，走上人生巅峰。", topN));
//[ { word: 'CEO', weight: 11.739204307083542 },
//  { word: '升职', weight: 10.8561552143 },
//  { word: '加薪', weight: 10.642581114 },
//  { word: '巅峰', weight: 9.49395840471 } ]
```

See details in [test/demo.js](test/demo.js)

## Testing

Testing passed in the following version:

+ `node v0.10.2`
+ `node v0.12.1`
+ `iojs v1.3.0`
+ `iojs v2.2.1`
+ `node v4.0.0`

## Cases

+ [gitbook-plugin-search-pro]
+ [pinyin]

## Performance

It is supposed to be the best in the angle of high performance, because its basic foundation is powered by C++.

## Online Demo

http://cppjieba-webdemo.herokuapp.com/
(chrome is suggested)

## Contact

Email: `i@yanyiwu.com`
QQ: 64162451

![image](http://7viirv.com1.z0.glb.clouddn.com/5a7d1b5c0d_yanyiwu_personal_qrcodes.jpg)

## Licens

MIT http://yanyiwu.mit-license.org

## Thanks

- [Jieba]

## Author

- [YanyiWu]
- [contributors]

[由NodeJieba谈谈Node.js异步实现]:http://yanyiwu.com/work/2015/03/21/nodejs-asynchronous-insight.html
[Node.js的C++扩展初体验之NodeJieba]:http://yanyiwu.com/work/2014/02/22/nodejs-cpp-addon-nodejieba.html
[CppJieba]:https://github.com/yanyiwu/cppjieba.git
[cnpm]:http://cnpmjs.org
[Jieba中文分词]:https://github.com/fxsjy/jieba

[Jieba中文分词系列性能评测]:http://yanyiwu.com/work/2015/06/14/jieba-series-performance-test.html
[contributors]:https://github.com/yanyiwu/nodejieba/graphs/contributors
[YanyiWu]:http://yanyiwu.com
[gitbook-plugin-search-pro]:https://plugins.gitbook.com/plugin/search-pro
[pinyin]:https://github.com/hotoo/pinyin
